# fneeds

In long form, Food Needs, but pronounced /fnEEdz/, this project is about
providing a way for people to report their nutritional needs and be directly
aided by a community of loving people who want to end hunger. Sadly, we live in
a world where smart phones have a lot more penetration than food. Because of
this, we can design digital systems to attempt to orchestrate the purchasing
and delivery of food for the needy.

Much of this document will be targeted at the United States, as that is the
context I am familiar with and affected by. If this project can be expanded to
other locations in the world, I am very open to it.

## Who is Hungry?

According to the USDA, 10.5% of American households had some amount of food
insecurity in 2020. 35.3% of households with incomes below the Federal poverty
line were food insecure. Rates of food insecurity were even worse for single
parents, Black and Hispanic households, and hit the urban and rural regions
worse than the suburbs. 14.8% of households with children were affected by food
insecurity, impacting the children in about half of the cases. Food insecurity
is especially prevalent in the Southern United States, with Texas, Lousiana,
New Mexico, Missouri, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, and West Virginia being the
states with food insecurity higher than the national averages.

## Why are they Hungry?

There are many reasons why people in the US are hungry today. Ranging from lack
of access to healthy food in food deserts to lack of income, in general the
economy is not healthy enough to provide adequate food supplies to those who
need it. On the other hand, it seems absolutely clear that we are able to produce
enough food to do so.

## What can we do?

Well, my idea is to simply make a registry where people can register their
requests for sustenance, along with accounts of their personal circumstances,
and other users can dedicate some amount of their personal resources or time to
help people get the food they need. The aim is to create a platform upon which
those who can supply direct aid to those who need it are able to do so.
